We are going to add some scripts to the mongo-replica-set-single docker compose scenario for running the ingestion server and test data generator so that it is consistent with the mongo-replica-set-multi scenario.  That way, both scenarios will have the same scripts and it will be clear how to use the mongo configuration for the ingestion service and test data generator.  
1. First, we are going to parameterize the script used to start the standard data platform ingestion service, bin/server-ingest-start, so that it can be used by the mongo-replica-set-single docker compose scenario. Add a parameter to that script for passing the mongo URI.  When the parameter is not supplied, the script should execute as it currently does, by running IngestionGrpcServer without specifying a mongo URI, which will cause the server to use the default configuration.  When the parameter value is supplied to the script, it should include -Ddp.MongoClient.uri="$MONGO_URI" in the Java command used to start the application (as is done in the server-docker-ingest-start script).
2. Add a wrapper script called "start-ingestion-server.sh" to the mongo-replica-set-single docker compose directory that calls server-ingest-start with the mongo URI "mongodb://admin:admin@localhost:27017/?replicaSet=rs0&authSource=admin" as the URI parameter.
3. Add a wrapper script called "run-test-data-generator.sh" to the mongo-replica-set-single docker compose directory that simply calls the bin/app-run-test-data-generator script.