docker/docker-compose/mldp-ecosystem/README.md, before:

## Overview

This docker-compose file runs the full MLDP ecosystem, including the mongodb server and the 4 MLDP services: ingestion, query, annotation, and ingestion stream.

## Running

Run the scenario using docker compose as illustrated below:

```

```

Once the ecosystem is running, any MLDP client can be used to interact with the services.  For example, to generate some sample data, run the TestDataGenerator:
```
```

Note that 

## Notes

* I had to change the configuration for the local mongodb installation (when not running mongodb from docker) to allow connection from any IP address, which I don't love but it is what is is.  This is necessary so that the ingestion service docker container IPs can connect to mongodb.  This could be solved with a static configuration / firewall etc but I didn't want to go there for this simple scenario.  I edited /etc/mongod.conf as follows:
```
bindIp: 0.0.0.0
```

* I also had to change the ingestion service configuration to use the explicit host IP (-Ddp.MongoClient.dbHost=10.0.1.60) instead of "localhost", which also doesn't scale in a general way.  On some platforms, you can use the special DNS host name "host.docker.internal", but this seems to work on Mac and Windows (platforms with docker desktop) but not on ubuntu.  I also tried using "extra_hosts" in the config, but that also didn't work for me.  I obviously need to investigate further.
```
services:
          your-java-app:
            # ... other configurations
            extra_hosts:
              - "host.docker.internal:$(/sbin/ip route | awk '/default/ { print $3 }')"
            # ...
```

* I also tried using a command like the following to dynamically get the host IP and map it, but I also couldn't seem to make that work.  FWIW, this seems like a good solution, but not sure how it would hold up on different platforms (e.g., depends on /sbin/ip):
```
docker run --add-host host.docker.internal:$(/sbin/ip route | awk '/default/ { print $3 }') your-java-app-image
```

Commit message:

dp-support #43: single Dockerfile for all MLDP java apps, pass java options on docker command line

docker/docker-compose/mldp-ecosystem/README.md, after:

## Overview

This docker-compose file runs the full MLDP ecosystem, including the mongodb server and the 4 MLDP services: ingestion, query, annotation, and ingestion stream.

## Running

Run the scenario using docker compose as illustrated below:

```
/usr/bin/docker compose -f dp-support/docker/docker-compose/ingestion-load-balancer/docker-compose.yml -p ingestion-load-balancer up -d
```

Once the ecosystem is running, any MLDP client can be used to interact with the services.  For example, to generate some sample data, run the TestDataGenerator.

You can run the TestDataGenerator outside the docker environment with the default settings, e.g.,
```
/usr/lib/jvm/java-21-openjdk-amd64/bin/java com.ospreydcs.dp.service.ingest.utility.TestDataGenerator
```

This connects to the ingestion service running on "localhost" port 50051.

There is also a script for running the test data generator inside the docker environment against the docker service ecosystem.  The script is in dp-support/bin:

```
app-run-docker-test-data-generator
```

Note that when running the docker client, we are overriding the ingestion service hostname to use the docker service name, e.g., "eco-ingestion-server", also on port 50051.
